Objective:- Assignments will help trainees to understand the basics of unix command and how to explore and use it.

DO NOT copy paste commands from internet, you can take help of the Unix in-built command manual.

Be Honest to yourself!

Important command and option to learn unix commands:-
man Command
Example:-
man ls

--help Option
Example:-
ls --help

NOTE:- Always use "man" command before using any unix commands and read about it and its options and how to use it.

Assignments:-

List the contents of a directory and their attributes?
Ans : ls 

Long list the content with file, directory ownership, permissions,sizes, etc…
Ans : ls-l

Display the size of the file in human readable format
Ans : ls-lh file name

Show all files and folders including hidden one
Ans : ls-a

list directories recursively
Ans : ls-R

Sort the files by size with largest at the top
Ans : ls-S

Sort the files by last time modified displaying the newest first.
Ans : ls-t

Diplay the location of a program/command, where it is installed.
Ans : whereis -u program

Which command is used to switch directory from one to another
Ans : cd 

List all the environment variables set for the current shell environment
Ans : print env

Did you notice something in the output of "env" command?
Ans :  Yes,it will give the env variables

Which command is used to print the text or any variables value in the Console/Terminal?
Ans : echo

Print the value of the env variable "PATH" on the console
Ans : echo $PATH

Is linux a case-sensitive operating system?
Ans : Yes

Is, "Ls" same as "ls"?
Ans : No,command not found

Display your currently logged in user
Ans : echo $USER

how do you change the currrently logged in user to another user?
Ans : su-

Which command is used to leave a shell environment that you are currently logged in to?
Ans : exit command

How do you reboot the system?
Ans : reboot or sudosystem ctl reboot

How do you shutdown the system?
Ans :  shutdown/s

Display all the major running processes in the system
Ans : ps command

Understand the output of command used in above question of displaying processes, explain the meaning of each column and what data it displays?
Ans : PID TTY time and name of command

Display the name of the system kernel
Ans : uname-s

display the kernel release number
Ans : uname-r

display teh machine type of the current kernel
Ans : uname-m

Display the name of the operating system that the kernel is running on
Ans : uname-o

Display all info that uname command can show.
Ans : uname-a

Display the name of directory that you are currently pointing to
Ans : pwd

change the current directory to another directory that you have in your system.
Ans : cd

Go up one directory
Ans : cd..

Return to last directory
Ans : cd-

change the current directory to home(logged in user's) directory
Ans : cd~

How to check all the command used from the prompt (Command History)
Ans : history command

In which file the history of commands are stored in?
Ans : .bash_history

How many lines of history does the system keep and from where you can change it?
Ans : 1000 lines/etc/profile file

How can you modify bash's history behaviour
Ans : PROMPT_COMMAND

Display all the commands entered so far, now, try to run a particular command from the history list without typing that command.
Ans : First press control+R then type first letter of command you want to execute then command automaticall command entered

NOTE:- TAB key is your friend when it comes to command completion and having long file and directory names autocompleted at the bash prompt for you. JUST BE LAZY AND USE TAB KEY FOR AUTO COMPLETION ;-)

What are the different types of shell and where are they used and how do we use them?
Ans : The C Shell - Arithmetic and C-like expression syntax
      The Bourne Shell - Faster, more preferred but lacks built-in arithmetic and logical expression handling(sun solaris)
      The Korn Shell - It has interactive features.It includes features like built-in arithmetic and C-like arras,functions and string-manipulation facilities.It is faster than C shell.
      GNU Bourne-Again Shell - Denoted as bas.It is compatible to the Bourne shell.It includes features from Korn and Bourne shell


What is the difference between login shell and non-login shell?
Ans : If the output is the name of our shell,prepended by a dash,then it is a login shell.For example : -bash,-su etc

How do we start login shell and non-login shell?
Ans : bash-l or sh-1

What happens when you start a login shell (which files are read and used and Why)
Ans : It looks for ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login,and ~/.

What happens when you start a non-login shell (Which files are read and used and Why)?
Ans : Bash reads and executes commands from ~/.bashrc

What are Shell Configuration Files, why do we need it? 
Ans : /etc/profile : This is a "System wide" initialization file that is executed during login.This file provides initial environment variables and initial "PATH" locations
      /etc/bashrc : This again is a "System Wide" initialization file.This file is executed each time a Bash Shell is opened by a user.Here,you can define your default prompt and add alias information.Values in this file can be overridden by their local ~/.bashrc entry
      ~/.bash_profile : If this file exists, it is executed automatically after /etc/profile during the login process.This file can be used by each user to add individual entries.The file however is only executed once at login and normally then runs the users.bashrc file
      ~/.bash_login : If the ".bash_profile" does not exist,then this file will be executed automatically at login
      ~/.profile : If the ".bash_profile" or ".bash_login" donot exist,then this file is executed automatically at login
      ~/.bashrc : This file contains individual specific configurations.This file is read at login and also each time a new Bash shell is started.Ideally,this is where you should place any aliases.
      ~/.bash_logout : This file is executed automatically during logout
      ~/.inputrc : This file is used to customize key bindings/key strokes
      

What are Shell Variables, list major shell variables and what do they represent?
Ans : A shell variable is a special variable that is set by the shell and is required by the shell in order to function correctly.Some of these variables are environment variables whereas others are local variables. 

How we see all our env variables?
Ans : env

How we see all env variables in alphabical order?
Ans: env|sort

What Format does the env var and its values are stored? 
Ans : AUTOEXEC.BAT

How do you create your own varible?
Ans : Local var scope is limited to function in which he declared.It cant use outside function
      global var can be accessible in whole program/shell

How do you start a new bash shell?
Ans : bash

Difference between Local/Shell variables to Global Variable
Ans : Local variable is declared inside a function whereas Global variable is declared outside the function.


Making a variable accessible from other the shell in the system.
Ans : If you want to make a variable available to every new process,then you can put it in /etc/environment(requires root privileges)

Show the real life use case of exporting a variable
Ans : Export is bash shell BUILT-IN commands,which means it is part of the shell.It marks an environment variables to be exported to child-processes

Convert the above script file into a command, The file should run with "myappp" instead of "myapp.sh"

What is Globbing? Explain in depth with examples?
Ans : The Bash shell feature that is used for matching or expanding specific types of patterns is called globbing.Globbing is mainly used to match file names or searching for content in a file.Globbing uses wildcard characters to create the pattern.

List all entries with extension ".sh"
Ans : ls*.sh

List all entries with numbers in it.
Ans : ls +([0-9])

List all entries that starts with a character and ends with a number
Ans : ls |grep'^[A-Z]''[0-9]$'

List all entries that name length more than 5 characters
Ans : ls-A-d?????*

What is Quoting? and Why do we need it?
Ans : Quoting is used to remove the special meaning of certain characters or words to the shell.
      Quoting can be used to disable special treatment for special characters,to prevent reserved words from being recognized as such and to prevent parameter expansion

Write few(minimum 3) unique examples that shows, how a particular problem is solved using Quoting.
Ans : ~ Home directory 1
      ' Command substitution(archaic) 4
      # Comment 4
      $ Variable expression

How do you find a particular files/directories based on a particular search criteria?
HINT:- look for commands -> locate, find and whereis

Write major difference between locate, find and whereis?
Ans : Big difference is that find searches real files recursively down a given directoty.While, locate searches a database without requiring specific director.

How Globbing is different from locate, find and whereis?
Ans : The find program searches a directory tree to find a file or group of files.
      It traverses the directory tree and reports all occurences of a file matching and users specifications.
      The find program includes very powerful searching capability
      The locate program scans one or more databases of file names and displays any matches
      This can be used as a very fast find command if the file was present during the last file name databases update

Explain the Linux File System. 
Ans : A linux file system is a structured collection of files on a disk drive or a partition
      A partition is a segment of memory and contains some specific data

Explain absolute and Relative Paths
Ans : Absolute path is defined as specifying the location of a file or directory from the root director(/).It remain same always
      Relative path is defined as the path related to the present working directl(pwd)

What are the different ways of creating a File in linux System? Write an example of each and the difference between them.
Ans: Touch : It help to create empty files.Eg : touch lohitha.txt creates empty text files
    Cat : Cat help to create files with some information.Eg : echo "my name is lohitha"
>lohitha.txt

In how many ways we can delete the files from linux system? write an example of each and teh difference between them.
Ans : rm : It directly delete files
      rm -i : It first confirm whether you want to delete file or not
      unlink file : you can delete file by unlink it

Archiving files using linux command, write a command to archive set of files from linux commands.
Ans: tar -cvf filename.tar
     we use '-f' for file name
     we use '-v' ("verbose") option to have tar output the names of files as they processed

Extract the archived files from the above step.
Ans : tar-xvf project.tar
we use -x for extract files